# REL-RAG

## Make dataset

We use `webqsp` as an example. One can replace it with `cwq`.

First run:
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python emb.py --dataset webqsp
```

This will make retrieval dataset for webqsp dataset with text embeddings for question, entity and relations for each knowledge subgraph. Then run:
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python MakeTrainData.py --dataset webqsp
```
This will process the dataset to obtain candidate reasoning paths with the distance info. Next,
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python FindRationalPath.py --dataset webqsp
```
This will use LLM to identify rational paths in the training set.
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python RelationPathTargeting.py --train_path xxx  --out_dir xxx
```
This will identify the possible relation set for each sample. Specify `train_path` obtained the previous stage to load pickle file (e.g., `data_files/webqsp/train_res_topic_relations.pkl`). Then specify `out_dir` (e.g., `data_files/webqsp/topic_relation_candidates/`) for saving the pickle file for the relation set.

Before processing the PyG dataset, make sure `data/$dataset$/raw` is organized as following:

```
- raw
  - annotated_path_GPT4o
  - gte-large-en-v1.5
  - processed
```
All the pickle files should be inside `processed/`.

Finally, make the PyG dataset:
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python load_post_processed_dataset.py --name webqsp
```
This will make the training set for webqsp, using previous saved pickle files. For valid and test set, we use:
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python load_post_processed_dataset_test.py --name webqsp
```
This does not require rational path and relation labelling.

Now we have a PyG dataset, and we can directly apply a GNN model on it.

## Train retriever

With the obtained PyG dataset, we can train the graph retriever as follows:
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python main.py --num_layers 2 --dataset_name webqsp --epochs 15 --bidirectional --use_stop_mlp
```

## Inference
After model training, we can perform inference to get the reasoning path, and load the pickle file to map the nodes into triples.
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python model_inference.py --num_layers 2 --dataset_name webqsp --bidirectional --split test --use_stop_mlp --wandb_id webqsp;
```

## Generate answers using LLM reasoner
Finally, we can use the LLM reasoner to generate answers for each question, given the retrived reasoning chains from previous step. We use Llama-3.1-8B as a example.
```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python generate_answers_llama31_8b.py --file_dir $file_dir$
```
`file_dir` is the directory that saves the retrieved reasoning paths from inference stage. It will save the answers generated by Llama-3.1-8b into `out_file` as specified in line 114.
